# Adversarial-Machine-Learning-to-bypass-a-sophisticated-IPS

Stratosphere IPS

The core of the Stratosphere IPS is composed of what we called network behavioral models and detection algorithms. The behavioral models represent what a specific connection does in the network during its life time. The behavior is constructed by analyzing the periodicity, size and duration of each flow. The detection algorithms use our known malicious behavioral models to detect new suspicious connections in the network. The detection is currently done using Markov Chains-based algorithms.

Project Work

Machine learning is gaining traction in the network security do- main as the solution to multiple problems such as the scalability of network administration, security play-book automation, cost reduction for large scale companies, etc. Compromising machine learning model is then a very desirable goal for adversaries. Previ- ous works have been done on adversarial machine learning but not on models being deployed as a network security solution. For the first time, this paper will present vivid illustrations into the steps of attacking a machine learning based network security model within a reputable open-source framework named Stratosphere. The main contribution is our white-box testing algorithms that we used in order to successfully "break" Stratosphere to carry out malicious botnet C&C communication. The algorithms can also be used by other researchers to evaluate the base-line robustness of their machine learning designs.

Refer https://github.com/omkarparth/Adversarial-Machine-Learning-to-bypass-a-sophisticated-IPS/blob/master/Probing_the_Machine_Learning_Network_Defense_Models.pdf for the research paper based on this project. 
Refer https://github.com/omkarparth/Adversarial-Machine-Learning-to-bypass-a-sophisticated-IPS/blob/master/StratoKite-FinalPresentation.pdf for the presentation slides of the same.

The project was performed on a virtualized network consisting of a gateway, IPS, argus, and VMWare virtual machines.  

The /AttackVectors directory contains a list of network captures (pcap) files that were used to attack the IPS as an effort to bypass the detection. Note that we have used the same malicious captures which were posted on the Stratosphere IPS website as an example of malicious and detectable packet capture. 

The /StratosphereOutput directory contains a list of .argus files which bascially represents the output of the IPS when the corresponding packet capture was ran through the IPS. Note that the IPS fails to detect the malicious packets when they generated by the Explore and Blend algorithm specified in the research paper. 


1. INSTALLATION OF ARGUS

* Technically can use:
> sudo apt-get update <br/>
> sudo apt install argus-server <br/>
> sudo apt install argus-clients <br/>
* But can do manually :
http://nsmwiki.org/index.php?title=Argus#Download_the_packages
* Note that there are 2 components : server and client
* Note that if there is any complaint about missing files in /usr or any system folder, look for those files in the source of argus (git clone, then use find -name) and copy the files to correct location
<br/>

 2. LAUNCH
  * find the correct interface <br/>
> ip link show
  * launch argus
> sudo argus -d -i [correct interface name] -P 561
* launch ra
> ra -S 127.0.0.1:561
* RA should show logs of package traffics
* CD to root folder of stratosphere
<br/>
  
3. STRATOSPHERE
* Download StratosphereIPS for Linux
> git clone https://github.com/stratosphereips/StratosphereLinuxIPS.git
* launch Stratosphere
> ra -F ./ra.conf -n -Z b -S 127.0.0.1:561 | python2.7 ./slips.py -f ./models -d -v 3

4. ATTACK FRAME WORK
* Download Attack Framework for Linux
> git clone https://github.com/stratosphereips/StratosphereTestingFramework.git
* Install dependencies using PIP with targetted python version (in case you have multiple versions of python running). In this example, we will use PIP2.7
> sudo pip2.7 install prettytable <br/>
> sudo pip2.7 install transaction <br/>
> sudo pip2.7 install persistent <br/>
> sudo pip2.7 install zodb <br/>
> sudo pip2.7 install sparse <br/>
<br/>  
<br/>  
misc notes:<br/>  
nmcli : disable ethernet interface<br/>  
ssh -XC : to be able to lauch programs with graphical GUI from SSH session<br/>  
